Updating spin test page and including second example in the process (#1279)
fermyon/developer: content/spin/v2/testing-apps.md

---

The [spin test plugin](https://github.com/fermyon/spin-test) allows you to run tests, written in WebAssembly, against a Spin application (where all Spin and WASI APIs are configurable mocks).

> To use `spin-test` you write test scenarios for your app in any language with WebAssembly component support, and mock out all interactions your app has with the outside world without requiring any code changes to the app itself. That means the code you test in development is the same code that runs in production.

Author: Thanks @itowlson - I keep adding the hyphen don't I :grimacing: 
Updating in next push.

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```bash
$ spin new -t http-empty my-app --accept-defaults
$ cd my-app/
$ spin add -t http-rust my-component --accept-defaults
```

The above commands will scaffold out the application in the following format:

<!-- @nocpy -->

```bash
my-app/
├── my-component
│   ├── Cargo.toml
│   └── src
│       └── lib.rs
└── spin.toml
```

## Creating a Test Suite

> There is currently first-class support for Rust, but any language with support for writing WebAssembly components can be used as long as the `fermyon:spin-test/test` world is targeted. You can find the definition of this world [here](https://github.com/fermyon/spin-test/blob/4dcaf79c10fc29a8da2750bdaa383b5869db1715/host-wit/world.wit#L13-L16).

Author: Thanks, updating in next push.

$ cd tests
```

> After running the cargo new command we will have the following application structure:

Reviewer: I really like the clarity of showing the tree here!

Then, we open the `Cargo.toml` file from within in the `tests` directory and edit to add the `crate-type` of `cdylib`:

<!-- Leaving out annotation so this can just be copied by the user without any frills -->

```toml
[lib]
crate-type = ["cdylib"]
```

The `my-app/tests/Cargo.toml` file will look like this after editing:

```toml
[package]
name = "tests"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2021"

[dependencies]
spin-test-sdk = { git = "https://github.com/fermyon/spin-test", version = "0.1.0" }

[lib]
crate-type = ["cdylib"]
```

## Writing a Test

> Next, create a test that `spin-test` can run as a compiled WebAssembly component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create a test that `spin test` can run as a compiled WebAssembly component.
```

Then, we open the `Cargo.toml` file from within in the `tests` directory and edit to add the `crate-type` of `cdylib`:

<!-- Leaving out annotation so this can just be copied by the user without any frills -->

```toml
[lib]
crate-type = ["cdylib"]
```

The `my-app/tests/Cargo.toml` file will look like this after editing:

```toml
[package]
name = "tests"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2021"

[dependencies]
spin-test-sdk = { git = "https://github.com/fermyon/spin-test", version = "0.1.0" }

[lib]
crate-type = ["cdylib"]
```

## Writing a Test

Next, create a test that `spin test` can run as a compiled WebAssembly component.

> Here’s an example of two tests written in Rust using the [Spin Test Rust SDK](https://github.com/fermyon/spin-test/tree/main/crates/spin-test-sdk). The first test ensures that the Spin app responds properly to an HTTP request. The second test ensures that the Spin app responds properly when the key-value store has a certain key already set.

Reviewer: I think we should add some motivation about what the tests are checking.  E.g.\

```suggestion
In this example, we will write some tests appropriate to a JSON API service for information about service users. Here are two such tests written in Rust using the [Spin Test Rust SDK](https://github.com/fermyon/spin-test/tree/main/crates/spin-test-sdk). The first test ensures that the Spin app responds properly to an HTTP request. The second test ensures that the Spin app responds properly when the user data is present in the key-value store - for testing purposes, simulated by inserting it into a "virtual" store.
```

Open the `my-app/tests/src/lib.rs` file and fill it with the following content:

> <!-- Leaving out annotation so this can just be copied by the user without any frills -->

Author: We don't comment at all (this was just for clarity)

fn cache_hit() {
    let user_json = r#"{"id":123,"name":"Ryan"}"#;

    // Configure the app's 'cache' key-value store
    let key_value = spin_test_virt::key_value::Store::open("default");
    // Set a specific key with a specific value
    key_value.set("123", user_json.as_bytes());

    // Make the request against the Spin app
    let request = wasi::http::types::OutgoingRequest::new(wasi::http::types::Headers::new());
    request.set_path_with_query(Some("/user?123")).unwrap();
    let response = spin_test_sdk::perform_request(request);

    // Assert the response status and body
    assert_eq!(response.status(), 200);
    let body = response.body_as_string().unwrap();
    assert_eq!(body, user_json);

    // Assert the key-value store was queried
    assert_eq!(
        key_value.calls(),
        vec![spin_test_virt::key_value::Call::Get("123".to_owned())]
    );
}
```

The following points are intended to unpack the above example for your understanding:

- Each function marked with `#[spin_test]` will be run as a separate test.
- Each test can perform any setup to their environment by using the APIs available in `spin_test_sdk::bindings::fermyon::spin_test_virt`

> - After requests are made, you can use the APIs in `spin_test_sdk::bindings::fermyon::spin_test_virt` to make assertions that confirm that the request has been responded to (i.e. response status equals 200) or that the state of various resources (i.e. key/value store) have been changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After requests are made, you can use the APIs in `spin_test_sdk::bindings::fermyon::spin_test_virt` to make assertions that confirm that the request has been responded to (e.g. response status equals 200) or that expected Spin API calls (e.g. `get` to the key/value API) have been made.
```

> The tests above run inside of WebAssembly. Calls, such as Key Value storage and retrieval, never actually leave the WebAssembly sandbox. This means your tests are quick and reproducible as you don’t need to rely on running an actual web server, and you don’t need to ensure any of your app’s dependencies are running. Everything your app interacts with is mocked for you.

Reviewer: Another important benefit is isolation / reproducibility.  You never need to worry about existing resource state like crap left in your KV store from previous tests.

$ cd ..
```

Then we edit the `my-app` application's manifest (the `spin.toml` file) by adding the following block:

> <!-- Leaving out annotation so this can just be copied by the user without any frills -->

Reviewer: Again... just skip this I think?  If this is something we feel the need to write then let's define a `cpy` block or something, but I vaguely thought it was the default.

dir = "tests"
```

> ## Configure App Storage

Reviewer: An idea here is to have a H2 which is something like "Updating the App to Pass the Tests" with the "Update App Storage" and "Adding Busciness Logic" as subheads.  This groups the app-related tasks so the reader can think about them as a chunk rather than disconnected instructions.

> We are using Key Value storage in the application and therefore need to configure the list of allowed `key_value_stores` in our `spin.toml` file (in this case we are just using the `default`). Go ahead and the `key_value_stores` configuration directly inside the `[component.spin_key_value]` section, as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are using Key Value storage in the application and therefore need to configure the list of allowed `key_value_stores` in our `spin.toml` file (in this case we are just using the `default`). Go ahead and the `key_value_stores` configuration directly inside the `[component.key_value_stores]` section, as shown below:
```

dir = "tests"
```

## Adding Business Logic

> The goal of tests is to ensure that the business logic in our application works as intended. For this example, copy and paste the following code into the application's source file ( located at `my-app/my-component/src/lib.rs`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of tests is to ensure that the business logic in our application works as intended. We haven't yet updated our "business logic" frrom the "Hello, Fermyon" app. To make our new tests pass, copy and paste the following code into the application's source file (located at `my-app/my-component/src/lib.rs`):
```

(just building out some more context and explanation for why they are doing this)

            }
        }
        // No other methods are currently supported
        _ => (405, None),
    };
    Ok(Response::new(status, body))
}
```

## Building and Running the Test

Finally, we're ready for our test to be run. We can do this by invoking `spin-test` from the application's root directory (`my-app`):

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```bash
$ spin build
$ spin test

running 4 tests
No value found for the key "123"
test request-with-invalid-key    ... ok
Found value for the key "123"
test cache-hit                   ... ok
No value found for the key "0"
test request-with-invalid-key-id ... ok
No value found for the key ""
test request-without-key         ... ok

test result: ok. 4 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 0 filtered out; finished in 2.08s
```

## Next Steps

`spin-test` is still in the early days of development, so you’re likely to run into things that don’t quite work yet. We’d love to hear about your experience so we can prioritize which features and bugs to fix first. We’re excited about the future potential of using WebAssembly components for testing, and we look forward to hearing about your experiences as we continue the development of `spin-test`.

> You might also like to learn about `spin doctor` which is a command-line tool that detects and helps fix issues preventing applications from building and running. For more information see the [trouble shooting applications page](./troubleshooting-application-dev.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might also like to learn about `spin doctor` which is a command-line tool that detects and helps fix issues preventing applications from building and running. For more information see the [troubleshooting applications page](./troubleshooting-application-dev.md).
```
